The Marshall Mathers LP is the third studio album by American rapper Eminem, released on May 23, 2000 by Aftermath Entertainment and Interscope Records. The album was produced mostly by Dr. Dre and Eminem, along with The 45 King, the Bass Brothers, and Mel-Man. It was recorded over a two-month period in several studios in the Detroit area, and during this time, Eminem felt significant pressure to improve upon the success of his previous record. Released a year after Eminem's breakout album The Slim Shady LP, the album features more introspective lyricism including the rapper's response to his sudden rise to fame and controversy surrounding his lyrics. Musically, the album has been associated with the genres of hardcore hip hop and horrorcore. 
The Marshall Mathers LP debuted at number one on the US Billboard 200, selling 1.78 million copies in the US in its first week alone which made it the fastest-selling studio album in the United States at the time. Like The Slim Shady LP, The Marshall Mathers LP was surrounded by significant controversy upon its release. Criticism centered around lyrics that were considered violent, homophobic, and misogynistic. Lynne Cheney criticized the lyrics at a United States Senate hearing, while the Canadian government considered refusing Eminem's entry into the country. Despite the controversy, the record received acclaim from critics, who praised the rapper's lyrical ability and emotional depth. The album won three Grammy Awards at the 43rd Grammy Awards: Best Rap Album, Best Rap Solo Performance for "The Real Slim Shady" and Best Rap Performance by a Duo or Group for "Forget About Dre" (with Dr. Dre). It was also nominated for Album of the Year. 
The Marshall Mathers LP has sold over 35 million copies worldwide, making it the best-selling album of the 21st century and one of the best-selling albums of all time. The album is certified 11x Platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) for shipping 11 million copies in the United States. The album has been named on several lists of the greatest albums of all time. The sequel to the album The Marshall Mathers LP 2 was released in 2013.