The term democracy (from the ancient Greek δημοκρατία / dēmokratía, combination of δῆμος / demos, "territory" (from daiesthai, "to share") then "people", and kratein, "to command"), refers most often to a political regime in which citizens have the power. It can also designate or qualify more broadly a form of society, a form of governance of any organization, or a system of values.
According to the famous formula of Abraham Lincoln (16th President of the United States from 1860 to 1865) pronounced during the speech of Gettysburg, the democracy is "the government of the people, by the people, for the people". This is one of the canonical definitions commonly used, as evidenced by Article 2 of the 1958 Constitution of the Fifth Republic of France (Title I: Sovereignty). This definition is close to the etymological meaning of the term democracy.
However, this definition remains susceptible to different interpretations, both as to the concrete meaning of popular sovereignty and its practical application - which is clear from the diversity of political regimes that have claimed and claim to be democratic. . Thus, the distinction between what is a democracy and what is not a debate, and even today, there is no commonly accepted definition of what is or should be democracy. Some, like Jean-Jacques Rousseau, consider that democracy can only be direct: "Sovereignty can not be represented, for the same reason that it can not be alienated; it consists essentially in the general will and the general will is not represented. Some thinkers also give it a meaning beyond the political regime, which is even a pre-requisite for building a democratic political regime: for John Dewey (1859-1952), American philosopher, this one is above all a way of live. Note also the distinction between the notion of "people" and that more restrictive of "citizens": indeed citizenship is not necessarily (and is rarely even) granted to the entire population.
Generally speaking, a government is democratic, as opposed to:

to monarchical systems, where power is held by one (μόνος / monos = single, single).
oligarchic systems, where power is held by a small group of individuals (ὀλίγος / oligos = in small quantities, scanty) .Nevertheless, these oppositions, inherited from Greek philosophy (including the classification of Aristotle and Polybius ) are today equivocal because of the existence of parliamentary monarchies. Others, including Karl Popper in particular, define democracy as opposed to dictatorship or tyranny. Karl Popper believes that a regime is democratic if it allows citizens to control its leaders and also to oust them without resorting to violence. Karl Popper presented this theory in his book Open Society and its Enemies and summarizes its conception in the book All Life Is Problem Solving [ref. desired]. Others, like Francis Dupuis-Déri, ​​oppose democratic systems to aristocratic systems, where power is held by those considered "the best". For him, in France or in the United States in the 18th century, the hereditary aristocracy (under the monarchical regime) was replaced by an elected aristocracy: the election, mechanically, consists in choosing the best of us for functions which require knowledge, and is a procedure of self-expropriation of power by the citizens, which entrusts it to the elected officials.
Moreover, the term democracy does not refer only to forms of government, but can also refer to a form of society with the value of equality and freedom (this is notably the use made by Alexis de Tocqueville which focuses more on the cultural dimensions than on the political system itself [ref.], or more generally on a set of principles (cultural, social, political), ideals and values . The term democracy can also be used to qualify the governance of any body or social organization (public or private body, associations, company), most often through the qualifier of democracy. This usually means that this governance is based on the election and / or the draw, the deliberative procedures, the votes, the non-cumulation and the rotation of the charges, the equality of the members of the group and any other form of decision-making consensus.