Mars (pronounced in French: / maʁs /) is the fourth planet in order of increasing distance to the Sun and the second in increasing mass and size. Its distance to the Sun is between 1.381 and 1.666 AU (206.6 to 249.2 million kilometers), with an orbital period of 669.58 Martian days (686.71 Earth days).
It is a telluric planet, as Mercury, Venus and the Earth are, about ten times less massive than the Earth but ten times more massive than the Moon. Its topography presents analogies with the Moon, through its craters and impact basins, as well as with the Earth, with formations of tectonic and climatic origin such as volcanoes, rifts, valleys, mesas , dune fields and polar ice caps. The largest mountain of the Solar System, Olympus Mons (which is also a shield volcano), and the largest canyon, Valles Marineris, are on Mars.
Mars has now lost almost all of its internal geological activity, and only minor events would occur episodically on its surface, such as landslides, probably CO2 geysers in the polar regions, perhaps earthquakes or even rare volcanic eruptions in the form of small lava flows.
The period of rotation of Mars is of the same order as that of the Earth and its obliquity gives it a cycle of seasons similar to that which we know; these seasons, however, are marked by an orbital eccentricity five and a half times higher than that of the Earth, resulting in a substantially more pronounced seasonal asymmetry between the two hemispheres.
Mars can be observed with the naked eye, with a much weaker glow than Venus but which can, during close oppositions, exceed the maximum brightness of Jupiter, reaching an apparent magnitude of -2.91, while its apparent diameter varies from 25.1 to 3.5 arc seconds depending on whether its distance to Earth varies from 55.7 to 401.3 million kilometers. Mars has always been visually characterized by its red color, due to the abundance of amorphous hematite - iron oxide (III) - on its surface. This is what made him associate with the war since Antiquity, hence his name in the West after the god Mars of the war in Roman mythology, assimilated to the god Ares of Greek mythology. In French, Mars is often nicknamed "the red planet" because of this particular color.
Before the March overflight by Mariner 4 in 1965, it was thought that there was liquid water on the surface and that life forms similar to those existing on Earth could be developed there, a very fertile theme. science fiction. Seasonal variations of albedo on the surface of the planet were attributed to vegetation, whereas straight formations perceived in astronomical glasses and telescopes of the time were interpreted, notably by American amateur astronomer Percival Lowell, as irrigation canals crossing desert areas with water from the polar ice caps. All these speculations were swept by the space probes that studied Mars: in 1965, Mariner 4 discovered a planet devoid of global magnetic field, with a cratered surface reminiscent of the Moon, and a tenuous atmosphere.
Since then, Mars has been the subject of more ambitious exploration programs than for any other object in the Solar System: of all the stars we know, it is indeed the one that presents the environment with the most similarities to that of of our planet. This intensive exploration gave us a much better understanding of the Martian geological history, revealing in particular the existence of a remote period - the Noachian - where the surface conditions were to be quite similar to those of the Earth at the same time, with the presence of large amounts of liquid water; In the summer of 2008, the Phoenix spacecraft discovered shallow water ice in the soil of Vastitas Borealis.
Mars has two small natural satellites, Phobos and Deimos.