Kery James, whose real name is Alix Mathurin, born December 28, 1977 in Abymes, is a French rapper of Haitian origin. He is considered by the specialized press and the public as a figurehead of political rap. His work evokes life in the suburbs and inequalities in France today. Kery James is also part of the Mafia K'1 Fry collective.
At the age of 13, he and three of his friends, rapper Harry and dancers Teddy and Selim (now Jessy Money, Teddy Corona and Selim from the 9.4 in the Mafia K'1 Fry collective) Ideal Junior, later renamed Ideal J, under the name of Daddy Kery.
He publishes his first album, Si c'est à remaire, in 2001. In 2003, Kery James appears in the documentary DVD If you ride with the Mafia K'1 Fry, in which he brings his testimony. It carries out a project, Know and live together, for which it brings together rappers, singers and sportsmen, which advocates unity in the context of the after September 11, 2001. In 2005, after his participation in the compilation Illicit project, with his titre I do not believe in the illicit, publishes his second solo album, My Truth, which includes fourteen titles, which I could have said, Mine or Hardcore (2005), with the participation of Iron Sy. He publishes his third solo album, In Shadow of the show business, in 2008, which is propelled, from the first week, to the third place of the French rankings.
Kery James announces in June 2009 his departure from France and the microcosm of French rap. His return is announced in January 2012. In January 2016, he publishes a new track entitled Vivre ou mourir ensemble, written after the attacks of November 13, 2015. On March 11, he publishes Mouhammad Alix, and in 6 months three new sounds extracted from his next album of the same name that tends to current trap.
The magazine Complex placed 10th in its top 10 best French rappers: "Compared to many of his French contemporaries, Kery James is a lot more fun and happy-go-lucky, standing out of the legions of gangsta and political rappers As a result "(" Compared to other French rappers, Kery James is much more fun and positive, standing out from a legion of political rappers and gangsta ").
A film called Banlieusard is released in 2019 on Netflix, directed by Leila Sy, who has clipped many pieces of Kery James.