MC Jean Gab'1 or Jean Gab'1 by his real name Charles M'Bous, born January 28, 1967 in Paris, is an actor, comedian, scriptwriter, writer, rapper, singer-songwriter and French sportsman. He was to a lesser extent TV presenter.
In 1977, at the age of 10, he became an orphan when his father, after a divorce difficult to live with, killed his mother and the lover of his mother. He finds himself at the DDASS, then switches to criminality and banditry within gangs, and connects the years of imprisonment between France and Germany in the 1980s and 1990s.
In 2003, he clung to music and published his first album Ma vie, which contained the controversial single J't'emmerde, with which he became popular quickly. Thanks to this notoriety, he is quickly noticed by the cinema community, because of his strong personality and his eventful past, after a difficult and chaotic childhood. He has many roles in various action films. He made his first steps in Suburb 13 in 2004 or Black in 2009, where he plays the lead role. In 2010, he publishes his second solo album Seul ... Je t'emmerde. Although he has released two studio albums, he does not consider himself a rapper. He defines himself more as an artist, and makes rap last among his various activities.
In the 2010s, he goes to writing and publishes his first biographical book On my mother's grave in 2013, where he discusses his tumultuous life, followed by a second biographical book evoking part of its history in banditry , East, in 2015. These two books have the distinction of being written in a lively language and enamelled slang. The same year, he plays in the sequel of the feature film, Banlieue 13: Ultimatum. In parallel, it is at this same time that he practices the discipline of street workout ("street musculation") of which he became Champion of France in 2012, at the age of 45 years. In 2018 and 2019, he continues his career as an actor and plays in the television series Access created by Ahmed Sylla, and broadcast on C8.
Today converted into cinema and literature, for the newspaper Libération, Jean Gab'1 (who does without the title "MC" now) "has the hardest CV of French hip-hop." For Télérama, he is "the big mouth of French rap". PurePeople puts forward its "outspokenness".