Supreme NTM, or simply NTM, is a French hip-hop group, originally from the department of Seine-Saint-Denis. Composed mainly of two rappers, JoeyStarr (Didier Morville) and Kool Shen (Bruno Lopes), the band marks the beginnings of the rap of the 1990s in France. Formed in 1988 and dissolved in 1998, they reformed in 2008 (celebrating the twenty years of the group) and in 2018 (for thirty years), without announcing new album and for a tour national event.
The two rappers JoeyStarr and Kool Shen claim their suburban origins of Department 93, that is to say, young people who have lived and survived in a disadvantaged environment. Thus, the group is called at its beginnings: 93 NTM, identity representative of their origins ,. If NTM is known before 1998 for his hostility towards the police, virulent words, and a legal battle with the French authorities, he is also known for his overtly critical remarks about racism and class inequalities in the world. French society, and who carry an emergency report on the state of the suburbs.
In this group wanted "realistic" or "authentic" by its authors, the contrast between styles is marked: while JoeyStarr has a relatively slow flow, aggressive lyrics, lyrics rather engaged, a deep voice, resonant and hoarse, Kool Shen has a more lyrical flow, more melancholy and poetic lyrics. Their musical style evolves between that of a hardcore rap and that of a conscious rap while passing by that of a rap "festive" as in the single The fever or Pass pass the oinj, which helped to make known the band . Some albums clearly have funk, soul and reggae influences. In total, six albums have been released by Sony Music Entertainment under the label Epic Records.
In 1998, the band released their last album, NTM Supreme, under the label NTM: this record, containing the track Laisse pas trainer son son, was a great commercial success with over a million records sold. JoeyStarr and Kool Shen each launch their own labels, promoting new groups and creating new branches in other areas such as the apparel industry (2 High is the Kool Shen brand, JoeyStarr's Com8). While the group still existed officially, the notoriety of its name was used in 2001, to promote a duel featuring the two artists' labels against each other. Despite the statement of Kool Shen in 2004: "we are done with NTM in 98", the group is reforming the time of a successful national tour in 2008. In Bercy, the first three concerts are sold out, confirming the success of reunions expected by the fans.
In 2018, NTM returns on stage during a tour event, celebrating the thirty years of the group, through a successful national tour including the AccorHotel Arena.